Create Basic Data Visualizations with Python-Workshop (#1332)
hackclub/hackclub: workshops/python and data visualizations/README.md

> ![Winnie the Poo dancing!](https://i.pinimg.com/originals/50/5a/0e/505a0e4591fc8052631bed84ac0de1ee.gif)

Reviewer: lets move this below the header

> <h1> Create basic graphs and data visualizations with python! </h1>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Create basic graphs and data visualizations with python!
```

> You after you make your first data visualization^

Reviewer: what about a stonks meme to mix it up?

> <p> Follow along with this workshop to gain some data science skills! You will use python to create basic graphs and visualizations with real data. You can hand draw a graph anytime you want, but why not learn how to code one! You will learn about matplotlib, pandas, and numpy, so you can create any graph or vizualizaiton you dream of!

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Follow along with this workshop to gain some data science skills! You will use python to create basic graphs and visualizations with real data. You can hand draw a graph anytime you want, but why not learn how to code one! You will learn about matplotlib, pandas, and numpy, so you can create any graph or vizualizaiton you dream of!
```

> </p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> ![Stonks](https://wompampsupport.azureedge.net/fetchimage?siteId=7575&v=2&jpgQuality=100&width=700&url=https%3A%2F%2Fi.kym-cdn.com%2Fentries%2Ficons%2Ffacebook%2F000%2F029%2F959%2FScreen_Shot_2019-06-05_at_1.26.32_PM.jpg)

Reviewer 2: Please re-host on the #cdn channel :)

> 

Reviewer 2: Please rename the folder to `python_dataviz` or something—remove the spaces though

> You after you make your first data visualization^

Reviewer 2: Please add the metadata as requested in the bounty guidelines to the start of the file

> *Follow along with this workshop to gain some data science skills! You will use python to create basic graphs and visualizations with real data. You can hand draw a graph anytime you want, but why not learn how to code one! You will learn about matplotlib, pandas, and numpy, so you can create any graph or vizualizaiton you dream of!*

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*Follow along with this workshop to gain some data science skills! You will use python to create basic graphs and visualizations with real data. You can hand draw a graph anytime you want, but why not learn how to code one! You will learn about matplotlib, pandas, and numpy, so you can create any graph or visualization you dream of!*
```

> *Follow along with this workshop to gain some data science skills! You will use python to create basic graphs and visualizations with real data. You can hand draw a graph anytime you want, but why not learn how to code one! You will learn about matplotlib, pandas, and numpy, so you can create any graph or visualization you dream of!*

Reviewer 2: The start of your workshop should lay out a specific thing you’re going to make, with a link &/or screenshot of the live demo, as well as the source code. Even if folks deviate from the workshop (which we hope they will) to take it in their own direction, they should be able to follow it with no changes & get exactly what you did.

# Step One!

*Uploading Libraries* ...

First, we need to upload the [libraries](https://docs.python.org/3/library/) we will be using for this project. Every programming language has different “classes” that you need to use to access specific variables. The same thing occurs in Python, but instead they are known as libraries.

![Princess Belle in her wonderful library](https://media1.tenor.com/images/ac626c2d2b7a34b52ea8a630e9add18d/tenor.gif?itemid=4087766)

*Libraries Upload Continued...*

In this workshop we will be using: [pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/) , [numpy](https://numpy.org/), and [matplotlib](https://matplotlib.org/).

**Pandas**: This is not the furry animal you are thinking of, pandas is a efficient and easy way to use open source data analysis.
![enter image description here](https://i.pinimg.com/originals/35/fa/7d/35fa7d4060787c575eb0ec6a67411270.gif)

**Matplotlib**: This is a plotting library using a numerical mathematics extension Numpy.

**Numpy**: This is a python library that is very good with hard mathematical functions and arrays.

# Step Two: Let's Make A Simple Line Plot!

**Note: Customize your plots and graphs! (Labels, Values, etc.)**

> ``` python

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```python
```

import pandas as pd 
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt 
```
The code is above imports Pandas and Matplotlib into this project so we can have access to certain variables and methods available in these libraries!

```python
x=[x*2 for x in range (100)]
y=[y*2 for y in range (100)]

plt.plot(x,y)

```
This code segment will create the ranges on our x and y axis and `plt.plot` will plot the points we want! In this example there are no specific points being plot though, we are just making a basic linear function. 

```python
#showing graph
plt.show() 
```
This line will show the graph and points we plotted, basically giving the user an output. 

*`plt.show()` --> shows the graph output.*
*`plt.plot(x,y)` --> plots your points.*

**You should get something that looks like this...**

> **![](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/ANl3lVAPXZfLS8CDBbqIv3Pu8zYpzp5kqXoqBwa4RsDg0g-B0g3x_YnssB2ddfbSh1chvWTnWkvJKFZpuxOcfcQ3aT1vbxxoA3NX2LCY1KnIUXtfNIjeFuMAVW0vQ1RvhgijbcilX9c)**

Reviewer 2: Add alt text

# Now Let's Create A Simple Bar Graph!
```python 
import pandas as pd
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import random
```
This code above imports the libraries again. Notice that we import another library called `random` this will allow for a random number to be chosen each time we have a `y` value which you can see later in our code!

```python
x=['Tacos','Burritos','Churros']
y=[random.randint(0,30), random.randint(0,90),random.randint(0,10)]
plt.bar(x,y)
plt.show()
``` 

The code above names each of the bars (defines x and y lines), creates random values of Y using ```random.randint()```, plots our points, and shows the graph!

Example: 

> **![](https://cloud-3r2clygpe.vercel.app/0image_from_ios.jpg)**

Reviewer 2: alt text

# Let's Make It A Little More Complicated!

We are going to make a more personalized graph using three different functions

## Step One! 

I am sure you all have already guessed it hehe, Import your libraries!!!!!!!!!!

![Kermit the Frog Dancing!](https://media.tenor.com/images/614ba4f8eab2c798cd83d931c4b0f4b1/tenor.gif)

 ```python
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt 
import numpy as np
```
*Notice that we will be using numpy this time! :)*

### Hold up...what does matplotlib even do?

I am sooooo glad you asked! 

To create the graph we want to make we will be using the matplotlib library! It will...

-   Create an outline

-   Create an axes

-   Create axes ranges

-   Allows us to plot points

![Amazed Monkey Meme](https://impeccabletablemanners.files.wordpress.com/2016/05/monkey-puppet-omg-shock-gif.gif)

> ### Okay now lets get back to it...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Okay, now let’s get back to it...
```

*Make sure your libraries are uploaded!*

## Step Two!

The code below creates the skeleton of a graph, plots points, and shows output!
```python
#creates figure (graph skeleton)
fig,ax= plt.subplots()
#plots points
ax.plot([1,2,3,4],[1,4,2,3])
plt.show()
```
     
*Something new you may have noticed is the use of fig, or aka [figure](https://matplotlib.org/api/_as_gen/matplotlib.pyplot.figure.html)*.

In the code above, and anytime you want to create a graph you will be using fig.

-   For example in our code so far we have used…
```python
fig,ax= plt.subplots()
```
     
- This created a figure with a single axis.
- Here are a few different ways you can use fig…
```python
fig=plt.figure() 
#creates empty graph returns with num. figues
fig,ax =plt.subplots(2,2) #creates 2 graph figues
```
Check it out in your Jupyter Editor!

*Can you tell I have a strange fascination with random things dancing hehe!*

## Step Three!

*Make sure libraries are uploaded, look back @ Step Two if needed*.

Set up spacing of your x and y axis...
 ```python
 x=np.linspace(0,2,100)
 ```

> 
> \*Make sure your libraries are uploaded!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## Step Four!

Create a figure! Scroll back up to see how to write that code...

> Here is a hint 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here’s a hint:
```

`fig,ax= plt._____()`

> *Still stuck? Where the underscores are you should put*
> 
> `fig,ax= plt.subplots()`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*Still stuck? Where the underscores are, replace with `fig,ax= plt.subplots()`.*
```

## Step Five!

Now we can plot some lines, in this part customize it however you want!

This example is going to have 3 basic functions (linear, squared, and cubed) but you can fancy yours up any way you want!

```python 
ax.plot(x,x,label='Sleep')
ax.plot(x,x**2,label='Worry if sky is falling...')
ax.plot(x,x**3,label='Be a icon')
```

*Label= will be the name of your line*

![These People Went a Little Crazy With the Label Maker - Label Everything |  Guff](https://cdn.guff.com/site_1/media/20000/19031/thumbnails/fb1_6a99eaed05ac9d5f956c3e32.jpg)

*`ax.plot` will plot your points/lines*

## Step Six!

Finishing touches!

![Bibitty Bobittiy Boo!](https://45.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_lz56maEBTj1qdmlfso1_250.gif)

   ```python 
   ax.set_xlabel('Time') #adds X axis label
   ax.set_ylabel('Years')#add Y axis label
   ax.set_title("Chicken Little's Plot") #adds a title
   ax.legend() #adds a key of the graph
   ```

You could possibly get someting that looks like this...

> **![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/x7NafZjPviM76xz95YQKc4L8kW4zC3B5_zp4wE7Qv4FKWVX-6ZoB_4qtT4WbA1er9soAcMHZeBNgJgLMttFnr1hiXOkWxLQpBXI3uQQyRd7wOElTYLWZtczqgTvmWvmdOEzmnqMTECg)**

Reviewer 2: alt text here & below

*If you are having any issues make sure to check your top right corner to check if the "kernel" is on and is set to Python 3*
**![](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/PJUhbx9vkJDp955g7Azwv_j_EyXGC-_YA9NSED74DU1XbTSxuDUrPfXN4S1b3TY-cjtqaSwUJv6Cnat6Zqko3WQBZ9oSZwncGlOL9EckE6zTwOLVuJ3F9CKQrO8INgII254BJiNcazc)**
 

# If you are having any issues try copying the example code!

**All Example Code:**

   ```python 
   import pandas as pd
   import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
   import numpy as np
   
   x=np.linspace(0,2,100)
   fig,ax= plt.subplots()
   ax.plot(x,x,label='Sleep')
   ax.plot(x,x**2,label='Worry if sky is falling...')
   ax.plot(x,x**3,label='Be a icon')
   ax.set_xlabel('Time') #adds X axis label
   ax.set_ylabel('Years')#add Y axis lable
   ax.set_title("Chicken Little's Plot") #adds a title
   ax.legend() #adds a key of the graph

> ```

Reviewer 2: You should have screenshots throughout of what your graph should look like if you’ve followed the code correctly

By: Nic Piepenbreier!!!

#
**Heavily personalize your graph (like I did with Chicken Little)!
    \-Google code for different kinds of graphs (dot plot, pie charts, etc.)**
#   
**[Make multiple different kinds of graphs/visualizations](https://matplotlib.org/devdocs/gallery/subplots_axes_and_figures/subplots_demo.html).**
Example: 
   ```python 
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np
from matplotlib.patches import Ellipse

np.random.seed(19680801)

NUM = 250

ells = [Ellipse(xy=np.random.rand(2) * 10,
                width=np.random.rand(), height=np.random.rand(),
                angle=np.random.rand() * 360)
        for i in range(NUM)]

fig, ax = plt.subplots(subplot_kw={'aspect': 'equal'})
for e in ells:
    ax.add_artist(e)
    e.set_clip_box(ax.bbox)
    e.set_alpha(np.random.rand())
    e.set_facecolor(np.random.rand(3))

ax.set_xlim(0, 10)
ax.set_ylim(0, 10)

plt.show()

#Source: https://matplotlib.org/gallery/shapes_and_collections/ellipse_demo.html
```
**![](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/v_Pj4spo28Zkbyxd_wIIUJ0anPs10QSlbOVbPXL0CcGPjVsSVxHJXMmZ4ddPYqf431rfLcu9gpUGirr4BzrJJmWFWO4I68D3kpe8CHRShTkXd-4Js6no1AIuk_EBpVam1VtPdgtRzNk)**

> #

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

# Basic Data Visualizations with Python!

What will you need: 
Go to [Try Jupyter](https://jupyter.org/try).
When you get to the website you will see something like this...

> **![](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/kf8WU2xC639Ogql75pwjVJFsHLkL1Jc39FNmU985vWokqKD7IsnbpUYYgYTn1ke_RzrsH4E3zELEMEAGhdUFwghXyNX75iWV8kwH_v4ADJETTzO-5IsHcijdSwtwf3gbBbC994tc0FA)**

Reviewer: could you host this on Hack Club's CDN?

Reviewer: oh also add alt text

Click the middle one (Try JupyterLab)! 

> #

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Get started by going to [Try Jupyter](https://jupyter.org/try). When you get to the website you will see something like this...

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Get started by going to [Jupyter](https://jupyter.org/try). When you get to the website you will see something like this...
```

Reviewer 4: "Get started by going to Jupyter" looks more good in my opinion

# Step One!

*Uploading Libraries* ...

First, we need to upload the [libraries](https://docs.python.org/3/library/) we will be using for this project. Every programming language has different “classes” that you need to use to access specific variables. The same thing occurs in Python, but instead they are known as libraries.
![Princess Belle in her wonderful library ](https://media1.tenor.com/images/ac626c2d2b7a34b52ea8a630e9add18d/tenor.gif?itemid=4087766)

*Libraries Upload Continued...*

In this workshop we will be using: [pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/) , [numpy](https://numpy.org/), and [matplotlib](https://matplotlib.org/).

**Pandas**: This is not the furry animal you are thinking of, pandas is a efficient and easy way to use open source data analysis.
![enter image description here](https://i.pinimg.com/originals/35/fa/7d/35fa7d4060787c575eb0ec6a67411270.gif)

**Matplotlib**: This is a plotting library using a numerical mathematics extension Numpy.

**Numpy**: This is a python library that is very good with hard mathematical functions and arrays.

> #

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

I dont think we need these

To create the graph we want to make we will be using the matplotlib library! It will...

-   Create an outline

-   Create an axes

-   Create axes ranges

-   Allows us to plot points

![Amazed Monkey Meme](https://impeccabletablemanners.files.wordpress.com/2016/05/monkey-puppet-omg-shock-gif.gif)

### Okay now lets get back to it...

*Make sure your libraries are uploaded!*

## Step Two!

The code below creates the skeleton of a graph, plots points, and shows output!
```python
#creates figure (graph skeleton)
fig,ax= plt.subplots()
#plots points
ax.plot([1,2,3,4],[1,4,2,3])
plt.show()
```
     
*Something new you may have noticed is the use of fig, or aka [figure](https://matplotlib.org/api/_as_gen/matplotlib.pyplot.figure.html)*.

In the code above, and anytime you want to create a graph you will be using fig.

-   For example in our code so far we have used…
```python
fig,ax= plt.subplots()
```
     
-   This created a figure with a single axes.
- Here are a few different ways you can use fig…
```python
fig=plt.figure() 
#creates empty graph returns with num. figues
fig,ax =plt.subplots(2,2) #creates 2 graph figues
```
Check it out in your Jupyter Editor!

> *Can you tell I have a strange fascination with random things dancing hehe*

Reviewer 4: a full stop or an exclamation at the end here?

## Step Three!

> *Make sure libraries are uploaded, look back @ Step Two if needed*

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
*Make sure libraries are uploaded, look back @ Step Two if needed*.
```

 ```
import pandas as pd

import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

import numpy as np

  

x=np.linspace(0,2,100)

  

fig,ax= plt.subplots()

  
  

ax.plot(x,x,label='Sleep')

  

ax.plot(x,x**2,label='Worry if sky is falling...')

  

ax.plot(x,x**3,label='Be a icon')

  

ax.set_xlabel('Time') #adds X axis label

  

ax.set_ylabel('Years')#add Y axis lable

  

ax.set_title("Chicken Little's Plot") #adds a title

  

ax.legend() #adds a key of the graph
 ```

**PS. If you have never watched [Chicken Little](https://youtu.be/PPuk2JQgMkU)

You must do that asap, you are missing out on a animated masterpiece.

![enter image description here](https://media1.tenor.com/images/fac310fb90bbde750d9f2e6ad1af44b1/tenor.gif?itemid=9695910)

#
# Add On!

-   Look up how to link in raw data from the web into your graphs
    

	  	Hint: start off w/ pd.read_csv()
    

-   Heavily personalize your graph (like I did with Chicken Little)!
    
-   Google code for different kinds of graphs (dot plot, pie charts, etc.)
    
-   Make multiple different graphs (the set of four/set them up with figure.
    
-   Continue to play around!
    
-   Google!
- Look up how to import Google Trends into your graph!

> 

Reviewer: could we delete

Author: which part?

Reviewer: the extra new lines

Author: @samepoder done

Reviewer: cool! thanks, same (jk)
